If US President Donald Trump seemed especially cheerful during Thursday night's events aboard the Intrepid marking the Battle of the Coral Sea, there's a reason.

The President is basking in the glow of the biggest legislative win of his young presidency.

The Republican-controlled House of Representatives narrowly approved a bill which would repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act.

The bill now goes to the Senate where its fate is by no means certain. But a win is a win, and this one was especially sweet for Mr Trump.

The first attempt to get rid of Obamacare back in March never got to a vote, pulled by Republicans amidst fears 24 million Americans would lose their health coverage.

Amendments won over enough Republicans for the new version to squeak through 217 to 213.

Democrats have their eyes on a different number: 1,278 and counting.

That's the number of days until November 3, 2020, the next US presidential election.

And they hope the fight over Obamacare will play in their favour.

Perhaps such talk sounds premature. In Australia, the eight-week 2016 double dissolution federal election campaign was considered interminable. But for the party that loses the White House, the campaign for the next election starts immediately.

Trump's plans for Obamacare


What we know about the Republicans' "great plan" to reform US health care.
Soul searching turns to star searching in the blink of an eye. That's especially true this go-round.

Mr Trump wasn't supposed to win. While his unpopularity is high in historical terms, Democrats fret because the Trump base has proved remarkably loyal and a sitting president has an advantage.

The Democrats' first task is to win back seats in Congress in the 2018 midterm elections.

But behind the scenes, would-be Democratic presidential candidates are already jockeying for position to lead the ticket in 2020.

At this early stage, wannabes generally play coy. But it's widely assumed Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, Vermont Senator and former presidential candidate Bernie Sanders, and Senator Cory Booker from New Jersey are interested.

Former vice-president Joe Biden also rates a mention. And there are others.

Tell-tale clues to presidential ambitions include what's said and not said, where this occurs, how surrogates respond when quizzed, and writing a book.

Which is why Beltway insiders listened very carefully to Hillary Clinton's high-profile interview with CNN's Christiane Amanpour this week.

Could she, would she, consider running again?