President Donald Trump has received bipartisan praise for his decision to order a missile strike on a Syrian airfield Thursday night after a deadly chemical attack that killed dozens of civilians, but liberals were quick to accuse him of hypocrisy for seeking to restrict refugee admission from the conflict he condemned after the attack.

Hillary Clinton, a day after calling for the U.S. to destroy Syrian airstrips to prevent President Bashar Assad's forces from dropping chemical weapons on his people, criticized Trump for his executive order limiting the intake of refugees, warning that "we cannot speak in one breath of protecting Syrian babies and in the next close American doors to them."
Speaking at an event in Houston, her second public appearance in as many days, the former Democratic presidential nominee acknowledged the difficulty of the six-year civil war in Syria that has left half a million people dead and triggered a flood of refugees fleeing the conflict. Clinton said the attack on Syria's air base "needs to be followed by a broader strategy to end Syria's civil war and to eliminate ISIS strongholds on both sides of the border."

"So I hope this administration will move forward in a way that is both strategic and consistent with our values, and I also hope that they will recognize that we cannot in one breath speak of protecting Syrian babies and in the next close America's doors to them."

Asked directly Thursday night whether the gas attack had caused the president to reconsider his administration's efforts to implement the executive order seeking a 120-day pause on the entry of refugees into the United States, national security adviser H.R. McMaster said that aspect of the issue "wasn't discussed as any part of the deliberations."
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson during the same appearance reiterated that the U.S. plan is to defeat the Islamic State group, secure cease-fire agreements between government and opposition troops, and stabilize some areas of Syria so that "refugees can begin to go home and begin the rebuilding process" under local governance.

The Trump administration has long maintained that the executive order, which was subject to a temporary restraining order by a federal judge last month, was about protecting the United States from terrorist groups that "have sought to infiltrate several nations through refugee programs." Officials have also emphasized that the order allows refugees U.S. admission on a case-by-case basis.

But Clinton's comments were reflected in the words of some other Democrats, including Sen. Chris Murphy of Connecticut and Rep. Seth Moulton of Massachusetts, a former Marine.

"So @POTUS cares enough about the Syrian people to launch 50 Tomahawks but not enough to let the victims of Assad find refuge & freedom here," Moulton wrote on Twitter. "War doesn't get any easier than launching a few Tomahawk missiles. Everything from here is harder and more complicated. We need a strategy."

The remarks apparently referred to Trump's address Thursday night, in which he decried Assad's gas attack as justification for launching more than 50 Tomahawk missiles into the al-Shayrat air base near Homs.
It was a slow and brutal death for so many. Even beautiful babies were cruelly murdered in this very barbaric attack," Trump said. "No child of God should ever suffer such horror."

Lawmakers, pundits and analysts spanning the political spectrum cheered Trump's decision to order the attack, following Tuesday's deadly attack in Idlib that is said to have killed at least 70 people, including many children.

Republicans, including many who for years criticized former President Barack Obama for drawing a red line on Assad's chemical weapons attacks on his people, then deciding not to order strikes, offered nearly uniform praise of Trump's action. Democrats were more measured, many calling for congressional consideration of any additional military action in Syria.