The President, tweeting from his @realDonaldTrump account, said: "FBI Director Comey was the best thing that ever happened to Hillary Clinton in that he gave her a free pass for many bad deeds! The phoney…”

Continuing in another tweet he added: "…Trump/Russia story was an excuse used by the Democrats as justification for losing the election. Perhaps Trump just ran a great campaign?”

President Trump’s comments come as FBI director James Comey is set to testify before Senate Judiciary Committee in a hearing on FBI oversight later today.
In March, Comey had announced his agency was probing allies close to the President following claims Russian hackers had helped the Republican win the race to the White House.

US intelligence officials have claimed Russian spies hacked Democratic email accounts.

Comey’s testimony today is a regular occurrence as the panel oversees the FBI.

But on Thursday, Mr Comey is scheduled to speak behind closed doors in a separate meeting to the House committee looking into the Russia issues.
Speaking about the allegations against Russia, Clinton said: "He [Vladimir Putin] certainly interfered in our election and it was clear he interfered to hurt me and help our opponent.

"It wasn't a perfect campaign, but I was on the way to winning until a combination of Comey's letter and Russian Wikileaks.

"The reason why I believe we lost were the intervening events in the last 10 days."

President Trump has continuously rubbished the allegations, with a spokesman for the former business tycoon saying: “The election ended a long time ago in one of the biggest Electoral College victories in history.

“It's now time to move on and ‘Make America Great Again’.”

Earlier this year President Trump tweeted: “Russia has never tried to use leverage over me. I have nothing to do with Russia – no deals, no loans, no nothing.

“I win an election easily, a great ‘movement’ is verified, and crooked opponents try to belittle our victory with fake news. A sorry state.
“Intelligence agencies should never have allowed this fake news to 'leak' into the public. One last shot at me.”

He later added: “This Russian connection non-sense is merely an attempt to cover-up the many mistakes made in Hillary Clinton's losing campaign.”