On November 8 last year, Hillary Clinton’s advisers, donors, friends, supporters and assorted pop stars filled the Javits Centre in New York City’s Hell’s Kitchen. The building, with its distinct glass ceiling, was full of Clinton backers wearing “I’m with Her” and “Madam President” T-shirts, ready to celebrate Clinton’s ineluctable destiny to become president of the US.

Alas, as Jonathan Allen and Amie Parnes detail in their new book, Shattered: Inside Hillary Clinton’s Doomed Campaign, while Clinton was measuring the drapes for the Oval Office in those final days, “her team was mismeasuring the electorate”.
Our own politicians should dip into their taxpayer-funded allowance to buy this powerful precis of how Clinton’s loss became symbolic for reasons she and her campaign gurus never fully understood.

The true symbolism of Clinton’s campaign took place two months earlier.

Addressing an LGBT gala fundraiser in New York on September 9, the presumed Democrat heiress to the presidency described Donald Trump supporters as a “basket of deplorables”. “Racist, sexist, homo­phobic, xenophobic, Islamo­phobic — you name it,” she said. “Oh my God,” one campaign adviser recalls of his reaction. “She didn’t have the feel, the empathy.”

Last month, social psychologist and author of The Righteous Mind: Why Good People are Divided by Politics and Religion, Jonathan Haidt, said: “I think that the ‘deplorables’ comment could well have changed the course of human history.”

A few weeks later, Charles Murray, the author of Coming Apart, the 2012 treatise on the deep cultural ruptures in American society, agreed. Murray said this one comment, so emblematic of the disdain of elites towards main­stream Americans, likely swung enough voters towards Donald Trump making him their “murder weapon” against those same elites.
One flaw in Shattered, an otherwise penetrating account of Clinton’s loss, is its failure to fully explain that this one unguarded “deplorables” moment inadvertently divulged the locus of her doomed campaign. The deliberate campaign strategy to win a majority of minority groups was identity politics writ large. And it bombed.

That said, Allen and Parnes, who had premium access to Clintonworld — the huge array of advisers, consultants, pollsters, data gurus, speechwriters and a steady array of others brought in to bolster Clinton’s bid for the presidency — provide plenty of clues on how to lose an election. Helped along by the WikiLeaks dump of emails from Clinton campaign boss John Podesta, the authors draw on a treasure trove of insights.

None more so than Clinton’s failure to find a message. The candidate who eschewed unscripted interactions with voters gave speeches that failed to connect her to a cause larger than herself. Clinton couldn’t explain with power or emotion why, after a quarter of a century in politics, she wanted to be president. What would she do for Americans?

What would change? After a year on the campaign trail, “she hadn’t been able to connect all the dots. She spoke about ‘I’ and ‘you’, but almost never ‘we’.”

While her husband Bill had a famous handle on politics, Clinton couldn’t grasp the sentiment awash in her own country. She didn’t see Bernie Sanders coming or take Trump seriously because she couldn’t understand the mood. Plenty of policy nous provided little political understanding of white working-class and Middle America.

“Here she was, a year into her campaign and about to get trampled by a socialist, and ‘Breaking Barriers’ (her campaign theme at the time) was the best her staff could come up with,” write Allen and Parnes.

The first female presidential candidate couldn’t muster the excitement that fuelled Barack Obama’s election win in 2008, described superbly by John Heilemann and Mark Halperin in their 2010 book, Game Change.

As Shattered notes, the Clinton campaign was beset with messaging problems because it had a candidate problem.

Clinton expected her advisers to find the right message — “a construction deeply at odds with the way Sanders and Trump built their campaign around their own gut feelings about where to lead the country”. Unburdening herself to a friend brought in to bolster her spirits, Clinton said: “I don’t understand what’s happening with the country. I can’t get my arms around it.”

Her strategy of targeting minorities meant that, in Michigan, even while talking about the economy, it wasn’t clear to working-class white voters that she was on their side. “Why aren’t they with me? Why can’t we bring them on board?” she demanded to know after losing the rust-belt state to Sanders. Clinton’s formidable campaign machine didn’t help.

Complacency towards the never-to-materialise “blue wall” meant they paid little attention to large swathes of Middle America.

Structural deficiencies inside Hillaryland isolated the candidate from almost everyone except her trusted adviser Huma Abedin. Fear of the famous Clinton retribution prevented even senior advisers giving Clinton frank advice.

Instead, they sat mute after each defeat or setback, scolded by Clinton sounding like a scary schoolteacher. The data warriors, led by campaign manager Robby Mook, sliced and diced the much revered Clinton voting coalition of minorities that would lead her to victory. Except that while they had the maths, Trump had the mood.

The “real Hillary” reset in early September 2015 promising more “humour and heart” from Clinton was another disaster.

“An inauthentic strategy to make her look more authentic is absurd,” fumed long-time Clinton ally Brent Budowsky. “It was a pure what-the-f..k moment,” write the authors of Shattered.

As setbacks mounted, Clinton’s campaign manager Jennifer Palmieri complained that “we’re not allowed to have nice things”. This dark mantra of the campaign betrayed a sense of entitlement even as the damaging scandal about Clinton’s private email server revealed why so many voters disliked and distrusted her.

Under federal investigation, Clinton had lied about allowing the transmission of classified information on a private email server. While her husband railed against the campaign team for failing to bury the scandal, the candidate dug in, refusing to apologise and show contrition, and her indignation and conspiracy theories pointed to the recurring problem with the campaign: her. As Clinton aide Neera Tanden wrote in an email to Podesta: “Her inability to just do a national interview and communicate genuine feelings of remorse and regret is now, I fear, becoming a character problem.”

Under pressure from advisers, Clinton eventually said: “That was a mistake. I’m sorry about that.” But it was too little, too late. The Clintonian pathology, searching for a conspiracy, engulfed in paranoia, blaming others, refusing to apologise, is so infamous it deserves its own entry in the next edition of the American Psychiatric Association’s bloated Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders.

As defeat dawned on Clinton on November 8, she was so busy blaming the Russians, FBI director James Comey, KKK misogynists and even Obama, she refused to address supporters waiting all night under the Javits Centre glass ceiling. Here again, was Hillary unplugged. And the only thing shattered that night was Clinton’s political ambition, a genuinely deplorable campaign and the status quo of US politics.