Howard Stern says President Trump is “being very honest” when he says he misses his old life, telling his SiriusXM radio listeners, “Nobody wanted Hillary [Clinton] to win more than Donald Trump.”

“I’ve seen it up close,” the host said on Monday of Trump’s existence before becoming commander in chief. “[Trump’s] got the kind of life that politicians want.”

“Seventy-year-old guy who has made so much money — he’s made billions of dollars — that he has his own helicopter, he has his own airplane. He has a hot wife. He’s got fame from a No. 1 television show. He can walk around Mar-a-Lago, which is like any palace — better than the f--king White House,” said Stern, who hosted Trump as a guest on his show numerous times before the former “Celebrity Apprentice” star’s White House bid.

Stern, insisting he’s not “an insider” with Trump, has had a personal relationship with the president and has called him a friend. The ex-"America's Got Talent" judge described being at Mar-a-Lago, Trump’s ultra-exclusive Florida resort, “when he first announced he was gonna win.” It’s unclear if Stern, 63, was referring to the GOP nomination or the November election.

“I was at f--king Mar-A-Lago laughing about it,” said Stern. “I said, ‘What are you, out of your f--king mind?’”

“Ah, we’ll see what happens,” Stern says Trump replied.

“I loved my previous life,” Trump said last week in an interview with Reuters. “I had so many things going. I actually — this is more work than in my previous life. I thought it would be easier.”

Stern, who predicted on his show months ago that Trump would long for how he used to live before becoming president, said, “What happened to Donald Trump was — and I know about this because I was in therapy for 50 f--king years, and thousands of hours, and cost a fortune — like Trump, I can’t say no to stuff. I was a workaholic.”

“I didn’t really think about the impact on my personal life. All I would think about is the big announcement,” Stern said, describing how he would accept film and television offers.

“[Trump] said, ‘Hey, I can be president of the United States possibly.’ And then when he went out on the campaign trail, and he started to win, it was like, 'Oh my God, I’m going to be president, and all these crowds love me, and it’s going to be fun.' No f--king idea the shitty life he was gonna have."

“He’s sitting in the f--ing White House dreaming about getting to Mar-a-Lago, where he was,” Stern said.

“Believe me, nobody wanted Hillary to win more than Donald Trump. He didn’t need this. He’s got the kind of life you dream of,” Stern said in a conversation with co-host Robin Quivers.

Stern said if he were Trump, he “would create a health crisis and resign over it.”

When a caller argued that it wasn’t about fame or money for Trump, but rather a genuine devotion to the United States, Stern replied, “I’m not saying that Trump doesn’t care about the country, I’m not saying any of that. I think all of it was motivated by caring and all of that. But at the end of the day, he’s trapped at the White House.”